---
title: "Co-evolutionary Probabilistic Structured Grammatical Evolution"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-07-08-copsge
date: 2022-07-08
venue: 'Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO 2022), held in Boston, United States'
authors: "Jessica Mégane, Nuno Lourenço, and Penousal Machado"
---
Jessica Mégane, Nuno Lourenço, and Penousal Machado

---

[PDF](https://jessicamegane.pt/files/gecco_copsge.pdf)  [Code](https://github.com/jessicamegane/copsge/)

Abstract
---
This work proposes an extension to Structured Grammatical Evolution (SGE) called Co-evolutionary Probabilistic Structured Grammatical Evolution (Co-PSGE). In Co-PSGE each individual in the population is composed by a grammar and a genotype, which is a list of dynamic lists, each corresponding to a non-terminal of the grammar containing real numbers that correspond to the probability of choosing a derivation rule. Each individual uses its own grammar to map the genotype into a program. During the evolutionary process, both the grammar and the genotype are subject to variation operators.

The performance of the proposed approach is compared to 3 different methods, namely, Grammatical Evolution (GE), Probabilistic Grammatical Evolution (PGE), and SGE on four different benchmark problems. The results show the effectiveness of the approach since Co-PSGE is able to outperform all the methods with statistically significant differences in the majority of the problems.

DOI
---
[10.1145/3512290.3528833](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3512290.3528833)

Recommended citation
---
Jessica Mégane, Nuno Lourenço, and Penousal Machado. 2022. Co-evolutionary probabilistic structured grammatical evolution. In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO '22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 991–999. https://doi.org/10.1145/3512290.3528833